# Drought Prediction

# Abstract
Drought has been one of the most frightening natural calamity that is being faced by the humans, and it is generally faced by the farmers all
around the world. It can occur anywhere in the world and is also known as one of the slow disaster as it stays for a very longer time period and maybe even more if it wants to be more harsh. Drought not only impacts the human life but also the agriculture, world economies and energy that had been infiltrated by the farmers. Everything goes on stakes during this calamity and the basic needs such as food are not easy to get during these times and the inflammation is at peak due to supply and demand instability. There are many ways which can be done to avoid the drought, which include drip irrigation to save water during the times of drought, rainwater harvesting can also be a saviour, crop engineering, desalination
of water and many more things. The main solution for this would be to analyse the weather and the future outcomes of it which would help in preparing for the worse situation and also the soil prediction can help a lot when it comes to predicting this situation. The paper aims to take the data of weather and soil together to predict how droughts can be avoided.Deep learning techniques will help to get a great idea if the drought is going to happen or not.

# Model Architecture
The pictures must be categorized on the basis of their target characteristics after image processing and feature extraction. Image classification essentially pertains to the design and deployment of classifiers. The feature extraction procedure normally provides output in the form of a vector. In order to convert this vector to a confidence score, a classifier is employed. Based on the application, score is compared to either merely a threshold that determines whether an item exists or not (for example, the incidence of a plant or animal in the shot), or it is compared to additional scores to separate groups of things.The artificial neural network (ANN) technique converts the human brain’s NN (neural network)
structure into a mathematical model. It creates a simulated NN (neural network) framework by arranging a large number of neurons and connecting them. It derives the weight parameters of each neuron in the network via data set training. ANN may be divided into two phases: training learning and recognition categorization, depending on the technique used to create the network model . First and foremost, our method improves and adjusts network parameters to make picture identification and categorization faster and more accurate. The most extensively utilized ANN models these days are back propagation (BP) networks and radial basis function (RBF) neural networks.In the area of AI, an Artificial Neural Network seeks to recreate the network of neurons that make up a human brain so that computers can comprehend things and make choices in a human-like way. Computers are taught to operate like linked brain cells to construct an artificial neural network. The human brain comprises around 1000 billion neurons. Each neuron contains numerous association points ranging from 1,000 to 100,000. Material is stored in the human brain in such a manner that it may be dispersed, and we may take numerous portions of this data from our memory at the same time if required.

# Acknowledgements
This was a project completed as part of the IEEE Forum and manuscript has been accepted by the technical team for presentation at conference ICACITE 2022 and publishing in IEEE Xplore (Scopus indexed).